---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/crash-course/3-hr-mern-stack-traversy-media/2-19-production/","noteIcon":""}
---

### Build frontend,
```js
npm run build
```
- **This will create a `ris:Folder` `dist`** that can be used to render the whole react project
- This command compiles the whole react project into one folder that can be shipped to production. It will contain all the project dependencies and functionalities.

### In backend,
- **Add this code to check for production folder and render the frontend for the client.**
```js
if (process.env.NODE_ENV === 'production') {
  const __dirname = path.resolve();
  const root_folder = path.join(__dirname, '../');

  app.use(express.static(path.join(root_folder, 'frontend/dist')));

  app.get('*', (req, res) => {
    res.sendFile(path.join(root_folder, 'frontend/dist/index.html'));
  });
} else {
  app.get('/', (req, res) => {
    res.send('API is running...');
  });
}
```

1. **Environment Check:**
    
    - `if (process.env.NODE_ENV === 'production') { ... }`: This conditional statement checks whether the environment is set to production. If it is, the code inside the curly braces will execute; otherwise, the `else` block will execute.
2. **Production Environment Handling:**
    
    - Inside the `if` block (for production environment):
        - `const __dirname = path.resolve();`: This line resolves the current directory path and assigns it to the `__dirname` variable.
        - `const root_folder = path.join(__dirname, '../');`: This line joins the resolved directory path with its parent directory (moving up one level) and assigns it to the `root_folder` variable.
        - `app.use(express.static(path.join(root_folder, 'frontend/dist')));`: This middleware serves static files from the `frontend/dist` directory. It allows the server to serve compiled frontend assets (e.g., JavaScript, CSS, images) directly.
        - `app.get('*', (req, res) => { ... });`: This route handler catches all other requests (wildcard `*`) and sends the `index.html` file from the `frontend/dist` directory. This is typically used for client-side routing (e.g., handling React Router routes).
3. **Development Environment Handling:**
    
    - Inside the `else` block (for non-production environment):
        - `app.get('/', (req, res) => { ... });`: This route handler responds with the message “API is running…” when the root URL (`/`) is accessed. This is useful during development to verify that the server is up and running.
4. **Overall Purpose:**
    
    - The code snippet ensures that in production, static frontend assets are served from the `frontend/dist` directory, and any other routes (including client-side routes) serve the `index.html` file. In development, it provides a simple response for the root URL.
