---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/crash-course/3-hr-mern-stack-traversy-media/2-7-api-slices/","noteIcon":""}
---


> [!TIP] `ris:Folder` API Slices 
> Create an API slices folder to in the `ris:Folder` `slices`  manage all the API slices there. See [[Crash Course/3HR MERN Stack - Traversy Media/File Structuring/Organizing Imports\|Organizing Imports]] for proper file management.

`/slices/api/index.js`
```js
/* eslint-disable no-unused-vars */
import { createApi, fetchBaseQuery } from '@reduxjs/toolkit/query/react';

const baseQuery = fetchBaseQuery({ baseUrl: '/api' });

export const apiSlice = createApi({
  reducerPath: 'api',
  baseQuery,
  tagTypes: ['User'],

  endpoints: (builder) => ({}),
});

```
1. **Import Statements:**
    
    - `import { createApi, fetchBaseQuery } from '@reduxjs/toolkit/query/react';`: These lines import two functions from the `@reduxjs/toolkit/query/react` package:
        - `createApi`: A utility for creating an API slice.
        - `fetchBaseQuery`: A function that sets up a base query for fetching data.
2. **Base Query Configuration:**
    
    - `const baseQuery = fetchBaseQuery({ baseUrl: '/api' });`: This line initializes the base query configuration.
        - The `baseUrl` is set to `/api`, which means that all subsequent API requests will be relative to this base URL.
3. **Create an API Slice:**
    
    - `export const apiSlice = createApi({ ... });`: This line creates an API slice using the `createApi` function.
        - The `createApi` function takes an object with the following properties:
            - `reducerPath`: A string representing the slice’s name (used for naming actions and reducers).
            - `baseQuery`: The base query configuration we defined earlier.
            - `tagTypes`: An array of tag types (used for caching and invalidation).
            - `endpoints`: An object where you can define specific endpoints for your API (not defined in this snippet).
4. **Usage and Export:**
    
    - `export const { setCredentials, logout } = authSlice.actions;`: This exports the action creators (`setCredentials` and `logout`) from the slice.
    - `export default authSlice.reducer;`: This exports the reducer function itself (to be combined with other reducers in your Redux store).
5. **Purpose:**
    
    - The purpose of this code is to set up an API slice that can be used for making API requests within your Redux store.
    - You would typically define specific endpoints (e.g., `getUser`, `createPost`, etc.) inside the `endpoints` section.

### Configure Store
- After creating an API Slice, configure the store and add the API Slice in the `reducer.js` ([[Crash Course/3HR MERN Stack - Traversy Media/2.6 Slices\|2.6 Slices]]) and add API middleware to the `store.js` ([[Crash Course/3HR MERN Stack - Traversy Media/2.5 Redux Setup\|2.5 Redux Setup]])
- 